I used this exact same example in my Spring fundamentals course,
but let's talk about business focus for a minute.
If you've ever done much database development in Java, you've used JDBC.
And JDBC at first glance doesn't look that bad,
but then you really start picking it apart and it's really not pretty.
Look at all this extra stuff we have in our code,
just to do a simple select statement.
We have connections and prepared statements and result sets,
and then we have this try catch finally block and we have a driver manager.
We have all of this stuff in there and look at that
great big finally block of if rs = null,
if statement = null, if connection = null,
and then we also have these empty curly braces just catching exceptions.
There's a big bunch of just code in here when really all of our business
cares about is this single line right here where we say select whatever
fields are in the CAR table where this ID = whatever,
and then we only grab the other line that our business really cares about,
and that is the actual string, and store it in a Java object and return it.
Now this may look like a great selling point for
Hibernate instead of Spring JDBC,
but I'm actually going to show you that Spring JDBC
handles this example really well.
So all these places that we're assigning things and
handling stuff and closing all these connections can easily be handled by Spring JDBC for us.